# Loan Classification

Loan Application Classification for Lending Club Members

The present paper attempts to classify whether or not a loan application will be accepted or rejected based on economic features and demographic information about the loan applicant. LendingClub is the first peer-to-peer lending company to offer loan trading on a secondary market and enables borrowers to create unsecured personal loans between \$1,000 and \$40,000. Depending on the borrower's credit score, history, desired loan amount, debt-to-income ratio, type of loan, and other factors, LendingClub determines whether the borrower was creditworthy and may approve or reject a loan application. LendingClub is responsible for ensuring that the applicant has a reasonable chance of paying back the loan. When LendingClub determines that the borrower meets its basic requirements, LendingClub shows the borrower their loan options, but the prospective borrower has yet to submit an application. When the borrower sends in their full application, LendingClub performs an additional review of the application, which may include a hard inquiry to decide if the applicant is creditworthy. For an applicant, a hard credit inquiry can have a direct, negative impact on his or her credit score, so an applicant should be wary of whether or not their loan application will be accepted or not. Using LendingClub data from Kaggle and economics data from the Federal Reserve Economics Data, the goal of this project is to aid LendingClub loan applicants determine whether or not their applications are more likely to be accepted or rejected and inform them as to factors contributed the most to their application status. This will provide applicants better insight on how to minimize potential credit score damage and make informed decisions on successfully applying for a personal loan. We find that using XGBoost for classification improved upon the multivariable logistic regression. Furthermore, the most important feature that was integral to both model was employment length and the least important feature was the unemployment, our economic indicator for the health of the economy.


